# Chapter 3

## Question 1
Common Stream operations. Implement the following:

1. A function that adds up numbers, i.e., int addUp(Stream<Integer> numbers)
2. A function that takes in artists and returns a list of strings with their names and places of origin
3. A function that takes in albums and returns a list of albums with at most three tracks

>See [Question1.java](../java/com/lambdaherding/edi/mssw/ch03/Question1.java)

## Question 2

Iteration. Convert this code sample from using external iteration to internal iteration:
```java
int totalMembers = 0;
for (Artist artist : artists) {
  Stream<Artist> members = artist.getMembers();
  totalMembers += members.count();
}
```
> See [Question2.java](../java/com/lambdaherding/edi/mssw/ch03/Question2.java)

## Question 3
Evaluation. Take a look at the signatures of these Stream methods. Are they eager or lazy?
1. boolean anyMatch(Predicate<? super T> predicate);
> Eager as it returns a non-stream value

2. Stream<T> limit(long maxSize);
> Lazy as it returns a Stream

## Question 4
Higher-order functions. Are these Stream functions higher order, and why?
1. boolean anyMatch(Predicate<? super T> predicate);
> Higher Order as it takes a function as a parameter

2. Stream<T> limit(long maxSize);
> Not higher order as it doesn't.

## Question 5
Pure functions. Are these lambda expressions side effect-free, or do they mutate state?

```java
x -> x + 1
```

Here’s the example code:
```java
AtomicInteger count = new AtomicInteger(0);
List<String> origins = album.musicians()
                            .forEach(musician -> count.incAndGet());
```
1. The lambda expression passed into forEach in the example.
>MIKE: Layout and wording of this question is super confusing...
>Although AtomicInteger is effectively final, it is being modified inside the foreach loop, so it is impure.

## Question 6
Count the number of lowercase letters in a String (hint: look at the chars method on String).
>See [Question6.java](../java/com/lambdaherding/edi/mssw/ch03/Question6.java)

## Question 7
Find the String with the largest number of lowercase letters from a List<String>. You can return an Optional<String> to account for the empty list case.
>See [Question7.java](../java/com/lambdaherding/edi/mssw/ch03/Question7.java)
